Jakob Kusnick is a LEAD AI postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Digital Narrative in the Department of Linguistic, Literary and Aesthetic Studies.
He is responsible for Narrative Nubs, a project in collaboration with Nick Monfort at MIT, exploring AI story generators and developing miniatures of them as a platform for future research, teaching, and artistic practice.
His current research investigates how interactive visualizations can make these complex data systems understandable and usable. For example, using glyph-based summaries to compare story generators and visual interfaces that help users follow generation processes and analyse large quantities of their story outputs.
Jakob received his PhD in Computer Science in 2024 from the University of Southern Denmark in Odense, where his dissertation focused on visualization-based storytelling for digital humanities.
He continued there as a postdoctoral researcher, where his work also spanned tangible and intangible cultural heritage, musicology, art history, sustainability, and the life sciences.

Jakob Kusnick is a LEAD AI postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Digital Narrative in the Department of Linguistic, Literary and Aesthetic Studies at the University of Bergen. He leads Narrative Nubs, a project in collaboration with Nick Montfort at MIT that explores AI story generators and develops miniature versions of them as a platform for research, teaching, and artistic practice. His research investigates how interactive visualizations can make these complex systems understandable and usable, for example through glyph-based summaries for comparing AI story systems and interfaces for tracing generation processes and analyzing large collections of outputs. Jakob received his PhD in Computer Science in 2024 from the University of Southern Denmark in Odense, where his dissertation focused on visualization-based storytelling for digital humanities. He then continued at there as a postdoctoral researcher, with work spanning tangible and intangible cultural heritage, musicology, history, sustainability, and the life sciences.